Next we're gonna talk about
state management in Solid.
Luckily for us in Solid, state management
is basically the same that we've been
seeing inside our components.
You can put a signal inside you
can put a signal outside and
that's how you do state.
However, we still have a few mechanisms
that give you better control over it.
Both the way you inject
state management and
to control more granular updates.
We're gonna continue actually using
Todo as a bit of an example now
that everyone has a good understanding so
that we can actually understand some
of the nuances of using state in Solid.
So.
I have a Todo example very similar to what
we just built maybe a little less pretty.
But it has the same idea where
we generally are adding Todos,
updating an ID and
adding them to our list.
And this works pretty much as we'd expect.
So we can adjust the Window here.
Get a little bit more width.
We can add Learn Solid.
And we get it list crosses it off same
functionality we've been looking at but
what you probably didn't notice before and
because we didn't look at it,
is I've sneakily added a console.log
inside our Todo item here.
And this is important because
I wanna show you something.
I talked about how we had the four
component to optimize things.
And if I add a Todo, like Learn Solid.
I add a Todo.
We see Creating Learn Solid.
But when I'm checking it, wait,
it's calling creating again.
And you're like,
this is not what I expected.
I don't wanna recreate those DOM nodes.
Why is it doing this?
I mean, I can add a different Todo
as well let's add Hello World.
And that one will also
add its own logs as well.
But you can see that they're
not calling each other.
It's not the whole list.
It's just the one that's changing
is the one that's getting called.
And the reason for that is the way that
we're actually updating our Todos.
If you've noticed we were
spreading them in essentially,
which is fine spending list is fine, but
every time we actually change completed,
we actually cloned the todo item,
and we lost our reference to it.
And essentially it's getting
a new todo item every time.
So while we could sort the list, filter
it, do all the operations we need without,
well filtering is different
because you create and remove.
But while we could sort the list
without creating a remove,
editing the todo is actually
removing that reference.
So with reactivity sometimes you
actually want nested reactivity,
where we wanna actually update
the fact that it's completed
independent of losing our
reference to our todo.
And one way to do that,
which takes a bit of work,
is if we went through and instead of our
todo being just an object like this,
we can create signals
inside each todo item, so
you can have a signal with signals in it.
And I'm just gonna jump ahead here to
show you what that looks like because
it's definitely a bit cumbersome to write
out, so I'll save everyone the effort.
Essentially, now when we make credit t
do we actually add a completed and a set
completed, so we're actually creating
a signal every time we add it todo.
And similarly when we toggl it
we actually find the todo and
then call set completed on it, so
you can nest the reactivity so when we add
our todo here what you're gonna see
is it's gonna log it on creation now.
But when we update it's gonna update the
state, and it's not gonna log in again and
the reason for that is now that completed
is its own signal it knows to only run
the effect on that one checked
expression and not update.
But as I was saying, this is tedious
to do, and you don't wanna do this,
generally it feel a lot of work.
This is how we used to do things
back in 2010, 11, 12 time period.
Luckily, JavaScript has
evolved a lot from then, and
I wanna show you something, a different
permutive, it's called the Store.
And what a Store is, it's a proxy and
by using JavaScript proxies we can
automate the creation of nested signals
without anyone having to worry about it.
You can basically just treat it
like a normal JavaScript object and
under the hood it can get
that reactivity for us.
Crate Store starts a lot
like our crateSignal,
we can just replace it to begin with and
so to create Store our signal
what we're gonna do here is we're gonna
use createStore and passing an array.
Store is fine as long as it's an object.
It's important.
They can't be like a string or a number.
Because proxies can only be objects, and
it's important because we need
to access properties on it.
And the biggest difference
with a Store is.
It is not Is a function anymore, so
we have to update it a little
bit differently, essentially.
So.
This part is actually
funnily very similar,
we can just spread our store now that's
not a function and add our new todo.
However, if we wanna update our store,
instead of doing all this mapping and
immutable type logic, we can use
something called nested setters.
And what a nested setter is going to
let us do is instead of using this
pattern this was very inspired by
immutable.js and Falcor from Netflix
from a while ago, where you can
actually express things as a path.
So we could do something on toggl like.
We can put in path variables,
we can put in functions.
For example, we can go each
section of the setter responds to
a part of the path, so
we can go set the todos.
Where the todo.id =id completed
is the property that we wanna set.
And then we can either pass the value or
in this case what
we're gonna do is we're going
to pass another function.
Because on the final setter
function here we can basically
get the value of completed previously and
set it to not completed.
Now.
I'm gonna say a comma, okay?
This is a little bit much because I'm
showing basically all the possible
syntaxes for a setter at once.
Essentially, if you use
pass specific keys,
you can pass a function to filter it and
you can pass for
the last argument either a value or
a setter function, all right?
But the key part about this is essentially
by using this path based syntax,
we have the ability to update
exactly the spot that changes.
When you do something immutable,
you clone everything and
you lose that information and
what changes.
And the reason we have setters is you
could think or you could use mutation and
just change it directly.
We wanted to keep that
readwrite segregation.
We want to keep that unidirectional flow.
Very important to us to provide
essentially immutable interface.
The ability to set something or
change something is something that
the parent component chooses to pass on.
If it's not something that's implicit,
we didn't want people to just be able
to write stuff all over the place.
The same reason why our signals have
a getter and a setter method and
not just a single function or to do it.
So you're probably most
confused about this filter.
If it makes it any easier to picture.
This could be 0 for it.
So this would be set 0, that todo as 0,
completed to not completed.
So, essentially, we just follow a path
through our object to
be able to get to it.
And I realized when I wrote this almost
immediately that this is probably
the thing where you're like,
this is pretty fancy.
But I just wanted to show this because
this is actually a very concise way to
write this logic.
And now when we have our todos,
we don't call them as a function,
we just pass them in.
And what we're gonna see here
when we Learn Solid, and
I'm gonna bring this up a bit.
It's gonna console log the one time
like we're expecting and when we check
it we're gonna get the same behavior there
as the nested signals we did before.
We're only updates exactly what happens,
again cuz only todo a completed changed.
So we only update the one
fine grain thing.
So, generally speaking in Solid,
we do have two primitives.
I started with signals to keep things
basic, but this the same in view too.
They have rough and reactive because of
the limits of the JavaScript language,
essentially, you have the simple
thing to handle primitives.
And then if you wanna do nesting objects,
you have this ability to use these stores.
Essentially, for people going,
when do I use a Store?
When do I use a signal?
How do I make a choice?
I think about it a lot on things like
model boundaries, so if you're just
doing some simple logic to pipe through,
we were doing the show mode and
all that toggling stuff,
you can use signals in most places.
But when you're getting to
a point where you're like,
I'm gonna model some
more substantial data.
Maybe it came from a database originally.
Lists of models like your
set of users all that.
Stores are the ideal thing there
cuz they can do pinpoint updates.
Essentially, you can update any spot
on it and keep that granularity.
This is a very powerful tool,
and it enables Solid
to do stuff like update
a specific item in a list
without running the list
reconciliation logic.
And without the end user having to
worry that much, just go Create Store.
Now you have your Store,
you don't have to go through and
make a whole bunch of
nested individual signals.
So this is a very powerful API.
And it can be used inside
a components in outside component.
Some people actually like using Stores,
you just in their components
as a replacement.
Stores actually began as a replacement for
the same thing as react creates.
Sorry, React stayed in class components
where everything was plain object,
then people didn't worry about it.
They just go state, create, state,
and then just use the Store and
put all the variables in it.
So, there was a bit of
a style consideration.
And to be fair, Solid does support
some other mutation approaches.
Instead of paths, you can pass something,
a produce function which
lets you do mutable changes.
This is very inspired by Ember.js,
which helps create immutable changes
when in Solids case, this actually
does granular pinpoint changes.
You don't lose that information.
But the reason that we do
a special function again is this,
we wanna make sure that the setter
is separate from the read so
that we can have better
control over applications.
It's a very opinionated approach,
and it's one place where we actually
do hold a fairly strong opinion.
Because this is part of that learning
from frameworks like React around
unidirectional flow.
This is part of how we conquered
the chaos of reactivity.